the purpose of a work plan a work plan
is a living document in which you define
and prioritize your unit activities
think of it as a to-do list for the
upcoming year it helps communicate how
you assign resources and set timelines
it is the cornerstone of your planning
process because it supports your budget
and reporting activities typically you
wouldn't start from scratch you would
simply review last year's work plan
budget and report and identify what
needs to be kept added or removed the
next year but even before putting
together your work plan it's useful to
step out of your role and to look at the
big picture it all starts with this
speech from the throne which outlines
government priorities these priorities
will trickle down all the way to you as
a manager and will need to be reflected
in your work plan let's look at how that
happens after the speech from the throne
the Prime Minister addresses a mandate
letter to each departments Minister in
it the Prime Minister sets out their
overall expectations and policy
objectives for each department every
year there is a federal budget which
sets the economic agenda for Canada for
the year departments will have
priorities and objectives which will
align to this agenda in addition to
other core mandates the organization's
objectives are outline and a
departmental results framework or DRF
the DRF is very high-level broke into
strategic outcomes then you have the
departmental plan which describes the
core responsibilities
apartment the results the department
wants to achieve and lead indicators for
these results the departmental plan is
then broken down into plans per sector
branch and directorate this is where
your work plan comes in you build your
work plan around the activities for
which you are responsible within your
unit and this naturally ties back to the
departmental plan at this point you
might be wondering what a work plan
looks like not all units use the same
model by talking to colleagues you can
find out which one is used in your
office here is a typical work plan
structure have a look also look in the
file section on the top right to find
work plan examples to build a work plan
it helps to understand the historical
and cultural context of your unit by
asking yourself a series of questions
this is what we call the 360 scan here
is a fictional example of last year's
work plan budget and report try to apply
the questions in the 360 scan document
to this fictional example you may access
the 360 stand document at any time from
the file icon at the top right at this
point you understand the context both
historically and culturally and are in a
position to craft this year's work plan
let's continue to build on the fishing
licenses scenario imagine that your
director shares with you this coming
years priorities for your Directorate
protect aquatic ecosystems sustain
fisheries and manage the issuing of life
to help you wrap your mind around how to
fill the other sections of the work plan
let's continue with the fisheries
scenario looking at your draft you
notice that some items may have been
dropped in the wrong location or may be
missing
update your draft accordingly all right
your director tells you that they have
been to a steering committee and now
they have new information that should be
reflected in your work plan three things
new software implementation to speed up
the issuing of licenses new policy that
now requires licenses to be issued in 15
days in all 30 days starting November
1st and a decision not to replace a
retiring employee the following exercise
will help you adjust your work plan
according to this new information let's
take what you've learned into real life
your organization will have their own
ways of doing things take a time out
from this course to scan your intranet
to see which templates are used connect
with your colleagues your director your
financial officer to have a chat about
work life so now that you know how to
examine prepare and adjust a work plan
let's see what you remember
by taking this short quiz